## Event Tracing for Windows
Event Tracing for Windows (ETW) is a high-performance event logging and tracing framework built into Windows that enables operating system components and applications to generate and consume real-time diagnostic, performance, and security telemetry.

## ETW Architecture
### Providers
Providers are the components that generate events. Every application, service, or system component can register as an ETW provider and start sending structured event data. Windows comes with over 1,000 built-in providers, covering everything from. If a third‑party application wants to generate ETW events, it must first register as an ETW provider. Windows already includes more than a thousand built‑in providers.
You can list them using:
```
logman query providers
```
### Trace Session:
A Trace Session is where the events generated by providers are collected.
In simple terms:
Providers generate events
Those events are stored in buffers managed by the trace session.
The trace session can also write them to an ETL (Event Trace Log) file for later analysis.
So, you can think of a trace session as a container that collects events from one or more providers.

A single trace session can have multiple providers enabled at the same time.


### Controllers
Controllers are responsible for managing ETW sessions. They have the authority to start and stop trace sessions, enable or disable specific Providers, and configure the verbosity level of the events being captured. System administrators or security software often act as Controllers, using built-in tools like logman.exe or custom code to manage the flow of telemetry.

### Consumers
Consumers are the applications that read and analyze the events generated by Providers. This can happen in real-time or by parsing saved event log files (.etl files). Modern EDR solutions act as the primary Consumers in a corporate environment, continuously ingesting ETW data, running it through behavioral analysis engines, and alerting on suspicious activity.
